Welcome back.
Now that cutesie is installed we can go ahead and use pi charm in order to use cute and in order to
go ahead and use that we are going to create a new project.
So open up pie chart and create a new project.
Now here we need to change a project interpreter because we don't want to create a virtual environment.
What we want to use an existing interpreter
and here we of course need to select a interpreter.
So I'm going to press the three dots and I'm going to use the Conder and
I'm going to go to Kondo environment and then select a interpreter and that will be my python file.
So I need to go to users then to Anaconda where actually to my user than to Anaconda free and in there
I have a python file which is called Python paksa.
So that's the one that I want to use.
So I select that one and press OK as you can see now pipe 3.6.
In my case is the interpreter that is selected.
Of course I need to give it a name.
My application here and I'm going to call that student manager and press create once I'm here I'm going
to wait a little bit until everything is ready.
And once that is ready we can go ahead and create a new file so I'm going to create a new python file
which I'm just going to call maned up.
Why.
And there we are.
So in here I need to import Ciss first.
A system library and then from Q-tip.
Why I want to import cutesie widgets or qued would git.
So here you see that it offers me these cute widgets to here which is on their library's side pages
and then Q-tip.
Why.
And if it doesn't help you out.
So if you enter something and this intelligence doesn't come up and you can press control space or command
space and that will open up.
So I'm just going to go for cutesie widgets because we want to use widgets now in order to create an
app I need to say OK open up a web app and it should be a cutey widgets dot.
Q app location.
So queue application which pretty much creates a widget application.
Now this application needs some information so it could take in an argument as soon as you can see here
it says RGV list of string.
So it requires a perimeter here and to permuted and I'm going to give it is says Dot RGV.
Now this could be something like droite dragging a file onto our python file or stuff like that.
And as we don't do that we still need to give it some sort of a paramita here which is of this type
so needs to have this argument vees And once we have that we can create a window as you know a application
can contain multiple windows and we can just go ahead and create one window by using cutesie widgets
dot main window.
So Q T or Q main window and here were pretty much already creating a window.
So what we can do is show this window so window don't show and as you can see it's going to show self.
So if we execute this code now and we save it and right click Run main that will open up and it will
close straight away.
So as you can see I close my application it opened up real quickly.
Run main There is this little window and it's gone like in the South Park episode and it's gone.
And in order to keep the application open we need to add the following line where we say exit and in
here and Dot exec and there are two methods and the one that we want to use is the one with the underscore
at the end.
So exec on the score and brackets.
So now let's save it again and run the application again and you will see that the application keeps
open.
So this is our beautiful window that we have just created.
We haven't given it any paramita so we don't tell it how big it should be.
There is no title here nothing any more none of this information is given.
It says python here OK.
So let's change the title of the window first.
And in order to do so we can simply add something to the window.
So we are showing it here already after having created it at the moment but we can add a lot of things
to it such as buttons we can add a lot of settings here.
And then we just show it.
OK.
So we're going to set the window title for example window type top that one here we're going to set
it to something like a student manager.
OK so let me save that again and run it.
And now if I make it a little bigger you can see now it says student manager.
All right so now let's say we want to have a button I can create a button which will be of cutesie widgets
and that queue push button.
So there's something called queue push button.
And this shows show this button.
So button show and you see a little problem here.
So let's save it and display it or run it as you can see now.
I have a very weird behavior.
And that is that I have this one application let me make it a little bigger.
I can drag it to the side and I have the button as it's own application I can press the button but nothing
will happen and the button is not part of our main window.
So how do we manage this.
How do we get rid of this additional window that I don't need and put it into my main window.
Well you just need to tell the BART and here the cue push button who has parents.
And in this case I'm just going to say your parent is going to be the window.
So this window here is the parent of this button.
So if you run it again you will see that suddenly this button is inside of our window.
Now we of course can give this button a title or a text.
There is a set text method here where we can just entered text here my Or just click me click me and
save and run.
And as you can see there is this Click Me button.
Now of course we can add other objects in here as well.
For example if I want to add a checkbox I can just go ahead and use cutesy widgets as you can see these
cutesy widgets or cute widgets contains all the different widgets that we want to use such as buttons
and so forth.
So combo box call you check box button group so you can see if all of those classes of the QAD widgets
in here.
So they all inherit from cutesie widgets are cute widgets and the one I want to use is checkbox.
So I'm just going to say checkbox is going to be inside of the window because otherwise it's gone or
it's going to be a separate window again.
We don't want that and the checkbox can also have a text so there is also something called set text.
So let's do that.
Let's give it detects something like I am a check box.
And now in order to display this checkbox we need to call this show method.
So we just say show here again.
And now let's run it and we will see them.
There is this checkbox and there's this button and there on top of each other and I cannot even click
the button because the check box is in its way.
So how do I get that solved.
Well I can position the check box at a specific area of my screen so I could say something like checkbox
that said geometry.
So there's something called Geometry.
And here I can enter as you can see a x int which is the x position a Y and which is the y position
a W which is to with and H which is the height.
So I can just say OK put these 30 pixels to the right.
One hundred pixels to the bottom and make it 200 pixels wide and 100 pixel height.
So if I do that I save it and I run it.
And now you see it is gone.
Where is it.
Well it is there.
So we have to increase the size of our window in order to display it.
And now as you can see the checkbox works and it has this beautiful text and it says I'm a checkbox
and the button works and all is good.
And now you might say Oh damn now I will have to do all of that manually I need to code everything I
need to write so many lines of code.
Well you could and that is definitely a way that works but you can also drag and drop UI elements and
how to do that and what to do for that is is what you're going to learn in the next video.
So see you there.